
# Publications

1. **J. Thomas 2016** : *Resonant fast-slow interactions and breakdown of quasi-geostrophy in rotating shallow water*,  
_J. Fluid. Mech., 788: 492-520._ [PDF](URL_HERE)  

**Summary:** This paper examines interactions between fast inertia-gravity waves and slow balanced flows using asymptotic analysis. An evolution equation is derived for the slow dynamics to show that fast waves can energetically interact with balanced fields. In particular, an elegant toy model is developed in this paper to show that models that ignore fast wave dynamics can lead to wrong predictions on long time scales.

---

2. **J. Thomas, K. S. Smith and O. Buhler 2017** : *Near-inertial wave dispersion by geostrophic flows*  
_J. Fluid. Mech., 817: 406-438._ [PDF](URL_HERE)  

**Summary:** This paper investigates interactions between near-inertial waves and mesoscale eddies using asymptotic analysis and three-dimensional numerical simulations. It is shown that reduced asymptotic models can capture intricate features of the near-inertial waves, thus substituting complex and expensive three-dimensional equations.

---

3. **J. Thomas 2017** : *New model for acoustic waves propagating through a vortical flow*  
_J. Fluid. Mech., 823: 658-674._ [PDF](URL_HERE)  

**Summary:** A new amplitude equation is derived in this paper for high-frequency acoustic waves propagating through an incompressible vortical flow. The reduced model is specifically suited to capture the features of the wave field in the regime where the spatial scales of the wave and vortical field are comparable, a regime for which an optimal reduced model was unavailable.

---

4. **J. Thomas, O. Buhler and K. S. Smith 2018** : *Wave induced mean flows in rotating shallow water with uniform potential vorticity*  
_J. Fluid. Mech., 839: 408-429._ [PDF](URL_HERE)  

**Summary:** Numerical simulations and multiple asymptotic models are used to investigate qualitative and quantitative features of wave-induced mean flows generated by gravity waves in the absence of potential vorticity. Specific detailed changes in the flow field are examined as the rotation rate decreases, indicative of the scenario on moving from large mesoscales to small submesoscales in the ocean.
